---
layout: post
title: GSoC, Symbolic planning techniques for recognizing objects domestic - Part 2 
categories: [GSoC15]
tags: [mercedespaoletti]
description: In this second post, although it may seem begin the house from the roof, let's talk about how a robot moves its arms and hands in order to manipulate daily objects. The ultimate goal of this work is make the robot to be able to recognize certain daily objects in a house (for example a mug), and to manipulate...
---
#GSoC: Symbolic planning techniques for recognizing objects domestic

##A little introduction about inverse kinematics

In this second post, although it may seem begin the house from the roof, let's talk about how a robot moves its arms and hands in order to manipulate daily objects.

The ultimate goal of this work is make the robot to be able to recognize certain daily objects in a house (for example a mug), and to manipulate these objects with its effectors (hands). To do this, one of the things we need to implement is the inverse kinematics of the robot. Although this is the last step, we start by inverse kinematics to be easier and more intuitive than object recognition (besides that we have almost finalized the cinematic component in Robocomp).

###What does the inverse kinematics?

A recurring problem in robotics is to give to robots a certain autonomy in terms of movement. Focusing on a practical and realistic example, as is the trajectory of a robotic arm from an initial position to a target point, the question is how does the robot move its arm from the starting pose to the final pose? or what values take its engines arm to reach the final position? This is the typical problem of inverse kinematics, which is responsible for calculating the angular values of a kinematic chain composed engines (joints) of the arm to reach a target position.

###Inverse kinematics in Robocomp

As a result of the TFG, "Inverse kinematics in Social Robots" [1], since 2014 Robocomp has a component [2] that is responsible for calculating the inverse kinematics of the social robot Ursus [3], developed by Robolab. This component has undergone a big evolution, since it was created last year to now, and is more than likely to continue evolving to achieve inverse kinematics each finer and in less time. 

Originally, this component receives three types of targets:

1. POSE6D: It is the typical target with with translations and rotations in the X, Y and Z axis. The end effector has to be positioned at coordinates (tx, ty, tz) of the target and align their rotation axes with the target, specified in (rx, ry, rz).
2. ADVANCEAXIS: its goal is to move the end effector of the robot along a vector. This is useful for improving the outcome of the above problem, for example, imagine that the hand has been a bit away from a mug. With this feature we can calculate the error vector between the end effector and the mug, and move the effector along the space to place it in an optimal position, near the mug.
3. ALIGNAXIS: Its goal is that the end effector is pointing to target without moving to it but rotated as the target. It may be useful in certain cases where we are more interested in oriented the end effector with the same rotation of the target.

To solve these various inverse kinematic problems, the component uses as main base the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm proposed in the article "SBA: A Software Package for Generic Sparse Bundle Adjustment" by Lourakis and Argyros:

    Input: A vector functon f: R^m → R^n with n≥m, a measurement vector x ∈ R^n and an initial parameters estimate p_0 ∈ R^m.
    Output: A vector p+ ∈ R^m minimizing ||x-f(p)||^2.
    Algorithm:
        k:=0;                 v:=2;                     p:=p0;
        A:=transposed(J)·J;   error:=x-f(p);            g:=transposed(J)·error;
        stop:=(||g||∞ ≤ ε1);  μ:=t*max_i=1,...,m (Aii)
        
        while(!stop) and (k<k_max)
             k:=k+1;
             repeat
                   SOLVE (A+μ·I)·δ_p=g;
                   if(||δ_p||≤ ε2·(||p||+ε2))
                        stop:=true;
                   else
                        p_new:=p+δ_p
                        ρ:=(||error||^2-||x-f(p_new)||^2)/(transposed(δ_p)·(μ·δ_p+g));
                        if ρ>0
                            stop:=(||error||-||x-f(p_new)||<ε4·||error||);
                            p:=p_new;
                            A:=transposed(J)·J;    error:=x-f(p);    g:=transposed(J)·error;
                            stop:=(stop) or (||g||∞ ≤ ε1);
                            μ:=μ*max(1/3, 1-(2·ρ-1)^3);
                            v:=2;
                        else
                            μ:=μ*v;
                            v:=2*v;
                        endif
                   endif
             until(ρ>0) or (stop)
             stop:=(||error||≤ ε3);
        endwhile
        p+:=p;
        
Where `A` is the hessian matrix, `J` is the jacobian matrix, `g` is the gradient descent, `δ_p` is the increments, `ρ` is the ratio of profit that tells us if we are approaching a minimum or not, `μ` is the damping factor, and `t` and `ε1, ε2, ε3, ε4` are different thresholds. But the IK component of Robocomp adds several concepts to the original L-M algorithm, in order to complete the proper operation of the component: 

1. Weight matrix: that controls the relevance between the translations (in meters) and rotations (in radians) of the target. So, where `g` was calculated as `transposed(J)·error`, now `g` is `transposed(J)·(W·error)`
2. Motors lock: when a motor reachs its minimun or maximun limit, we modified the jacobian matrix.

The new version of the inverse kinematics component simplifies the code of the old version and adds some more functionality:

1. Executes more than once a target. The inverse kinematic result is not the same if the start point of the effector is the robot's home or a point B near tho the goal point.
2. Executes the traslations without the motors of the wrisht (only for Ursus). This makes possible to move the arm with stiff wrist, and then we can rotate easely the wrist when the end effectos is near the target.

Another improvement being studied is to include a small planner responsible for planning the trajectories of the robot arm, in order to facilitate the work of the IK component and reduce its execution time. However, one of the problems that the inverse kinematics can not solve by itself is the problem of gaps and imperfections of the robot. These gaps and inaccuracies make the robot move its arm toward the target position improperly, so that the robot "thinks" that the end effector has reached the target but in reality has fallen far short of the target pose.

In order to solve this last problem, we need visual feedback to correct the errors and mistakes introduced for the gaps and inaccuracies in the kinematic chain. The visualBIK component, developed during this project, is responsible for solve this visual feedback and correct the inverse kinematic, but we'll talk about it in the next post. 

Bye!

----------
[1] Master Thesis, Universidad de Extremadura, Escuela Politécnica de Cáceres. Mercedes Paoletti Ávila. 'Cinemática Inversa en Robots Sociales'. Directed by Pablo Bustos and Luis Vicente Calderita. July 2014. Download in https://robolab.unex.es/index.php?option=com_remository&Itemid=53&func=startdown&id=143
[2] inverse kinematics component repository: https://github.com/robocomp/robocomp-ursus/tree/master/components/inversekinematics
[3] C. Suárez Mejías, C. Echevarría, P. Núñez, L. Manso, P. Bustos, S. Leal and C. Parra. 'Ursus: A Robotic Assistant for Training of Patients with Motor Impairments'. Book, Converging Clinical and Engineering Research on Neurorehabilitation, Springer series on BioSystems and BioRobotics, Editors, J.L Pons, D. Torricelli and Marta Pajaro. Springer, ISBN 978-3-642-34545-6, pages 249-254. January 2012. Download in https://robolab.unex.es/index.php?option=com_remository&Itemid=53&func=startdown&id=128
[4] Lourakis, M. I., Argyros, A. (2009). SBA: A Software Package for Generic Sparse Bundle Adjustment. Article of ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, volume 36, issue 1, pages 1-30. Download in http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1486527







